docs/handbook.md, before:

## Operational Handbook for the Asset Map + Database

The objective of this project is to join many datasets from federal, state, and local sources to synthesize a comprehensive picture of the assets that make up the infrastructure of a particular community.

### Source-file preparation
We assembled many such datasets, in some cases filtering them down to just those in Allegheny County, or even filtering into several different files, one for each of the types of assets in the original file.

The source files can be found in [this private repository](https://github.com/WPRDC/liquid-assets). Source files are typically either CSV files, Excel files (which are then converted to CSV files using Visidata), or ESRI shapefiles (which are converted to SQLite using [shapefile-to-sqlite](https://pypi.org/project/shapefile-to-sqlite/), and from there to CSV, again by Visidata).

### Editing assets


### Exporting data
Accessing the URL [https://assets.wprdc.org/edit/dump_assets/](https://assets.wprdc.org/edit/dump_assets/) triggers a dump of the assets which will show up `(# of records)/(4000/minute)` later at
[https://assets.wprdc.org/asset_dump.csv](https://assets.wprdc.org/asset_dump.csv).

There is also a cronjob which periodically dumps the full set of assets to this file. This file is used as the source for the ETL job controlled by [this script](https://github.com/WPRDC/rocket-etl/blob/master/engine/payload/wprdc/assets_to_ckan.py), which runs nightly on the tools server.

Commit message:

Updated handbook.md to explain the conversion of data to a common schema

docs/handbook.md, after:

## Operational Handbook for the Asset Map + Database

The objective of this project is to join many datasets from federal, state, and local sources to synthesize a comprehensive picture of the assets that make up the infrastructure of a particular community.

### Source-file preparation
We assembled many such datasets, in some cases filtering them down to just those in Allegheny County, or even filtering into several different files, one for each of the types of assets in the original file.

The source files can be found in [this private repository](https://github.com/WPRDC/liquid-assets). Source files are typically either CSV files, Excel files (which are then converted to CSV files using Visidata), or ESRI shapefiles (which are converted to SQLite using [shapefile-to-sqlite](https://pypi.org/project/shapefile-to-sqlite/), and from there to CSV, again by Visidata).

### Conversion to a standard schema
[This ETL script](https://github.com/WPRDC/rocket-etl/blob/master/engine/payload/asset_map/_facet_hound.py) can be run (after changing the parameter `one_file = True`) to process all the source files represented in the `job_dicts` list, using the corresponding schemas, to produce an `all_assets.csv` file, which contains all the asset information in a standard schema, suitable for uploading to the asset database. This command will process all the source files:

```> python launchpad.py engine/payload/asset_map/_facet_hound.py mute``` 

The job codes defined in the `job_dicts` list can be supplied as command-line arguments to generate a file containing just those assets. For instance, the `job_code` value for the public-art dataset is `public_art`, so running

```> python launchpad.py engine/payload/asset_map/_facet_hound.py mute public_art```
will only process the public_art job. If `one_file == False`, the generated file will be called `public-art-pgh.csv`. All files will be saved to the directory given in the variable `ASSET_MAP_PROCESSED_DIR`, as specified by the `destination_file` parameter in the jobs (though this could be changed).

### Editing assets


### The workflow for adding a new file containing assets to the assets database

### Exporting data
Accessing the URL [https://assets.wprdc.org/edit/dump_assets/](https://assets.wprdc.org/edit/dump_assets/) triggers a dump of the assets which will show up `(# of records)/(4000/minute)` later at
[https://assets.wprdc.org/asset_dump.csv](https://assets.wprdc.org/asset_dump.csv).

There is also a cronjob which periodically dumps the full set of assets to this file. This file is used as the source for the ETL job controlled by [this script](https://github.com/WPRDC/rocket-etl/blob/master/engine/payload/wprdc/assets_to_ckan.py), which runs nightly on the tools server.
